dev/README.md, before:

# Ocuda Developer Documentation

## Framework

Ocuda targets the ASP.NET 6 framework. For that to work currently
you must:

- Install the [.NET 8
SDK](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/dotnet/8.0)
- [Visual Studio 2022](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/vs/)

## Project layout

- `Ocuda.i18n` - classes relevant to internationalization
- `Ocuda.Utility` - utility classes which are useful to both projects

Both projects have the some common layout items:

- `*.Web` - serves the application via the Web
- `*.Controllers` - ASP.NET MVC controllers and related items
(ViewModels, Filters)
- `*.Models` - pass data around the application
- `*.Service` - operations performed by the controllers, contains logic
- `*.Data` - handles data storage and retrieval
- `*.DataProviders.*` - Entity Framework data providers to connect to
persistence back-ends

Ops is the administration portion of the application which also can
function as an intranet.

Promenade is the public-facing portion of the application.

## Initial build and run

Currently the only available data provider is Microsoft SQL Server
("SqlServer").

From empty databases, the correct process is:

1. Build and run Ops.Web (to create the database structures)
2. Build and run Promenade.Web (to insert languages)

Then you can go back to running Ops.Web to start configuring data in the
database.

If you alter the data models you must add a new migration. There are two
approaches for this:

### Visual Studio Package Manager Console

1. Ensure the `Ops.Web` project is selected as the StartUp Project in
Visual Studio.
2. Select the "Default Project" of `Ops.DataProvider.<provider>.Ops` for
your chosen data provider.
3. Enter `add-migration -Context
Ocuda.Ops.DataProvider.<provider>.Ops.Context develop`.
4. Select the "Default Project" of
`Ops.DataProvider.<provider>.Promenade` for your chosen data provider.
5. Enter `add-migration -Context
Ocuda.Ops.DataProvider.<provider>.Promenade.Context develop`.

### Using dotnet command line tool

Use the following scripts:

- Add a migration with: `dev/add-migration.sh <provider> <name>`.
- Remove the latest migration with: `dev/remove-migration.sh
<provider>`.

Or perform the steps manually, such as:

1. `cd src/Ops.DataProvider.<provider>.Ops && dotnet ef migrations add
-s ../Ops.Web/Ops.Web.Web.csproj --context
Ocuda.Ops.DataProvider.<provider>.Ops.Context develop`
2. `cd ../Ops.DataProvider.<provider>.Promenade && dotnet ef migrations
add -s ../Ops.Web/Ops.Web.csproj --context
Ocuda.Ops.DataProvider.<provider>.Promenade.Context develop`

## Application settings
_Eventually this should be moved to the user documentation._

The available configuration keys are listed in
`src\Utility\Keys\Configuration.cs`.

### Ops

#### Required
##### Connection strings
- `Ops`
- `Promenade`

##### Settings
- `Ops.DatabaseProvider` - which database provider to use, currently the
only supported option is: `SqlServer`

#### Optional
##### Connection strings
- `SerilogSoftwareLogs` - SQL Server connection string for writing
application logs out, if unset logs are not written to SQL Server

##### Settings
- `Ocuda.FileShared` - defaults to "shared" - a file location shared
among any instances of the site which are running for handling site
assets
- `Ocuda.UrlSharedContent` - defaults to "content" - a mapping to the
public shared file directory (which is "public" under the configured
`Ocuda.FileShared`)

- `OpsAuthBlankRequestRedirect` - _used only by Ops.Web.WindowsAuth_ -
if the authentication site is loaded with no id or directive then
redirect to this URL
- `Ops.AuthRedirect` - URL to the deployed Ops.Web.WindowsAuth site - if
not specified authentication will not function
- `Ops.AuthTimeoutMinutes` - defaults to 2 minutes - timeout for
authentication bits (cookie and distributed cache elements)
- `Ops.Culture` - defaults to "en-US", the culture to use for displaying
things like dates and times - for valid options see the language tags
listed in the [Microsoft National Language Support (NLS) API
Reference](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=200048)
- `Ops.DistributedCache` - when unset, defaults to memory-based
distributed cache - a cache strategy to use: currently either unset or
'Redis' are valid
- `Ops.DistributedCacheInstanceDiscriminator` - if set, appends the
string to distributed cache keys in order to isolate them from other
instances (e.g. if multiple developers are using the same distributed
cache)
- `Ops.DistributedCache.RedisConfiguration` - _also used by
Ops.Web.WindowsAuth_ - if _Ops.DistributedCache_ is set to 'Redis' this
must be set with Redis configuration information, see the
[RedisCacheOptions.Configuration
property](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/microsoft.extensions.caching.redis.rediscacheoptions.configuration)
- `Ops.DomainName` - an Active Directory domain name to remove from the
beginning of authenticated users (do not include the slash)
- `Ops.HttpErrorFileTag` - if _Ops.RollingLogLocation_ is set, this will
write out http error logs in the same location but with the value of
this setting in the filename
- `Ops.Instance` - configure an instance name for more specific logging
- `Ops.LDAPDN` - Distinguished name of an LDAP user for performing
lookups, similar to "CN=Users Real Name,OU=Organizational
Unit,DC=domain,DC=tld"
- `Ops.LDAPPassword` - Password for the LDAPDN user
- `Ops.LDAPPort` - Port to connect to for LDAP, defaults to 389
- `Ops.LDAPSearchBase` - Search base for querying usernames, similar to
"OU=Users,OU=Organizational Unit,DC=domain,DC=tld"
- `Ops.LDAPServer` - LDAP server to query for information based on the
user's username
- `Ops.RollingLogLocation` - path of where to write log files which
rotate daily, if unset no rolling log is written
- `Ops.SessionTimeoutMinutes` - defaults to 2 hours - amount of time in
minutes for sessions to last
- `Ops.SiteManagerGroup` - if specified, this authentication group
(currently ADGroup) will be granted site manager access
- `Ops.SiteSettingCacheMinutes` - defaults to 60 minutes - how long to
cache site setting values

### Promenade

#### Required
- `Promenade.DatabaseProvider` - which database provider to use,
currently must be set to: `SqlServer`

#### Optional
- `Ocuda.FileShared` - defaults to "shared" - a file location shared
among any instances of the site which are running for handling site
assets
- `Ocuda.UrlSharedContent` - defaults to "content" - a mapping to the
public shared file directory (which is "public" under the configured
`Ocuda.FileShared`)

- `Promenade.Culture` - defaults to "en-US", the culture to use for
displaying things like dates and times - for valid options see the
language tags listed in the [Microsoft National Language Support (NLS)
API Reference](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=200048)

Commit message:

Remove individual LDAP port config

dev/README.md, after:

# Ocuda Developer Documentation

## Framework

Ocuda targets the ASP.NET framework. For that to work currently you must:

- Install the [.NET 8 SDK](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/dotnet/8.0)
- [Visual Studio 2022](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/vs/)

## Project layout

- `Ocuda.i18n` - classes relevant to internationalization
- `Ocuda.Utility` - utility classes which are useful to both projects

Both projects have the some common layout items:

- `*.Web` - serves the application via the Web
- `*.Controllers` - ASP.NET MVC controllers and related items
(ViewModels, Filters)
- `*.Models` - pass data around the application
- `*.Service` - operations performed by the controllers, contains logic
- `*.Data` - handles data storage and retrieval
- `*.DataProviders.*` - Entity Framework data providers to connect to
persistence back-ends

Ops is the administration portion of the application which also can
function as an intranet.

Promenade is the public-facing portion of the application.

## Initial build and run

Currently the only available data provider is Microsoft SQL Server
("SqlServer").

From empty databases, the correct process is:

1. Build and run Ops.Web (to create the database structures)
2. Build and run Promenade.Web (to insert languages)

Then you can go back to running Ops.Web to start configuring data in the
database.

If you alter the data models you must add a new migration. There are two
approaches for this:

### Visual Studio Package Manager Console

1. Ensure the `Ops.Web` project is selected as the StartUp Project in
Visual Studio.
2. Select the "Default Project" of `Ops.DataProvider.<provider>.Ops` for
your chosen data provider.
3. Enter `add-migration -Context
Ocuda.Ops.DataProvider.<provider>.Ops.Context develop`.
4. Select the "Default Project" of
`Ops.DataProvider.<provider>.Promenade` for your chosen data provider.
5. Enter `add-migration -Context
Ocuda.Ops.DataProvider.<provider>.Promenade.Context develop`.

### Using dotnet command line tool

Use the following scripts:

- Add a migration with: `dev/add-migration.sh <provider> <name>`.
- Remove the latest migration with: `dev/remove-migration.sh
<provider>`.

Or perform the steps manually, such as:

1. `cd src/Ops.DataProvider.<provider>.Ops && dotnet ef migrations add
-s ../Ops.Web/Ops.Web.Web.csproj --context
Ocuda.Ops.DataProvider.<provider>.Ops.Context develop`
2. `cd ../Ops.DataProvider.<provider>.Promenade && dotnet ef migrations
add -s ../Ops.Web/Ops.Web.csproj --context
Ocuda.Ops.DataProvider.<provider>.Promenade.Context develop`

## Application settings
_Eventually this should be moved to the user documentation._

The available configuration keys are listed in
`src\Utility\Keys\Configuration.cs`.

### Ops

#### Required
##### Connection strings
- `Ops`
- `Promenade`

##### Settings
- `Ops.DatabaseProvider` - which database provider to use, currently the
only supported option is: `SqlServer`

#### Optional
##### Connection strings
- `SerilogSoftwareLogs` - SQL Server connection string for writing
application logs out, if unset logs are not written to SQL Server

##### Settings
- `Ocuda.FileShared` - defaults to "shared" - a file location shared
among any instances of the site which are running for handling site
assets
- `Ocuda.UrlSharedContent` - defaults to "content" - a mapping to the
public shared file directory (which is "public" under the configured
`Ocuda.FileShared`)

- `OpsAuthBlankRequestRedirect` - _used only by Ops.Web.WindowsAuth_ -
if the authentication site is loaded with no id or directive then
redirect to this URL
- `Ops.AuthRedirect` - URL to the deployed Ops.Web.WindowsAuth site - if
not specified authentication will not function
- `Ops.AuthTimeoutMinutes` - defaults to 2 minutes - timeout for
authentication bits (cookie and distributed cache elements)
- `Ops.Culture` - defaults to "en-US", the culture to use for displaying
things like dates and times - for valid options see the language tags
listed in the [Microsoft National Language Support (NLS) API
Reference](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=200048)
- `Ops.DistributedCache` - when unset, defaults to memory-based
distributed cache - a cache strategy to use: currently either unset or
'Redis' are valid
- `Ops.DistributedCacheInstanceDiscriminator` - if set, appends the
string to distributed cache keys in order to isolate them from other
instances (e.g. if multiple developers are using the same distributed
cache)
- `Ops.DistributedCache.RedisConfiguration` - _also used by
Ops.Web.WindowsAuth_ - if _Ops.DistributedCache_ is set to 'Redis' this
must be set with Redis configuration information, see the
[RedisCacheOptions.Configuration
property](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/microsoft.extensions.caching.redis.rediscacheoptions.configuration)
- `Ops.DomainName` - an Active Directory domain name to remove from the
beginning of authenticated users (do not include the slash)
- `Ops.HttpErrorFileTag` - if _Ops.RollingLogLocation_ is set, this will
write out http error logs in the same location but with the value of
this setting in the filename
- `Ops.Instance` - configure an instance name for more specific logging
- `Ops.LDAPUser` - LDAP user for performing lookups
Unit,DC=domain,DC=tld"
- `Ops.LDAPPassword` - Password for the LdapUser user
- `Ops.LDAPSearchBase` - Search base for querying usernames, similar to
"OU=Users,OU=Organizational Unit,DC=domain,DC=tld"
- `Ops.LDAPServer` - LDAP server to query for information based on the
user's username, configured as a server name or a server name, a colon,
and a port. Currently using ports in Linux do not work, it will begin
to work [when the project transitions to ASP.NET 9](https://github.com/dotnet/runtime/issues/59701)
- `Ops.RollingLogLocation` - path of where to write log files which
rotate daily, if unset no rolling log is written
- `Ops.SessionTimeoutMinutes` - defaults to 2 hours - amount of time in
minutes for sessions to last
- `Ops.SiteManagerGroup` - if specified, this authentication group
(currently ADGroup) will be granted site manager access
- `Ops.SiteSettingCacheMinutes` - defaults to 60 minutes - how long to
cache site setting values

### Promenade

#### Required
- `Promenade.DatabaseProvider` - which database provider to use,
currently must be set to: `SqlServer`

#### Optional
- `Ocuda.FileShared` - defaults to "shared" - a file location shared
among any instances of the site which are running for handling site
assets
- `Ocuda.UrlSharedContent` - defaults to "content" - a mapping to the
public shared file directory (which is "public" under the configured
`Ocuda.FileShared`)

- `Promenade.Culture` - defaults to "en-US", the culture to use for
displaying things like dates and times - for valid options see the
language tags listed in the [Microsoft National Language Support (NLS)
API Reference](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=200048)
